Before we keep going too far,
let's run some of these tools so
you can see what I'm talking about.
So I'll just run it right here
in our workshop materials.
So I'm going to open up the DevTools
on my Mac with Command Option I.
That'll open up the console.
I can get into the elements inspector.
I happen to have AXE DevTools already
installed, it's over here on the right.
You can install it through
Chrome extensions.
There is a Firefox version and
maybe an Edge version, but
Chrome is the one I tend to use the most.
So some of these upsells I was mentioning,
they have the little,
have to pay for them.
But the scan all of my page free
setting is enough to be super helpful.
And voila, we have zero automatic issues.
I put in a little work to make sure that
this was as accessible as it could be,
as you might imagine.
But just because this says 0
doesn't mean my job is done.
I mean, we were tabbing through
the sidebar and kind of experientially,
it was forcing me through links
that I didn't wanna go through.
Axe isn't gonna know about that.
It's gonna just look at if things are
coded right in ways that it can automate.
So we want to make sure
that things are still,
the flows are following best practices and
that we're thinking about the experience.
While we're in here though,
I could show you Lighthouse.
So Lighthouse is built into Chrome if,
I know for some organizations,
getting approval on third party
extensions can be a chore, [LAUGH] or
even impossible,
like if you're really locked down.
So, lighthouse potentially could
be your saving grace there,
where if you can't get an extension
approved, or maybe it takes time,
lighthouse is just built into the browser
and it runs the same XCore API.
So I'm gonna uncheck.
Performance best practices, SEO and
progressive web apps just for
focus purposes.
So it's gonna analyze page load,
it will load up and
audit the webpage and
report back what's going on.
Checking it at a smaller viewport size.
We have some contrast issues
that X extension did not find,
which is interesting.
And it actually says error.
So this would be one too for
me to look into.
It has all the audits is that it passed.
I guess sort of my first guess as to
why this would be any different is that
the underlying axe core engines
could be different versions.
It also could be checking at
a different viewport size.
When I ran axe it was at the desktop size.
When I ran lighthouse, it was
checking primarily for a mobile size.
So those are two things right off the bat
that could cause a difference in results.
It also just could be an anomaly
with the way the tool reports.
So sometimes you get different results.
It is helpful to run a variety of
tools because maybe a different tool
will catch an issue.
Maybe so yeah,
I usually check in multiple things.
Another tool that I mentioned
was accessibility insights.
I have that installed.
It's this really cute little blue
heart with a magnifying glass.
So I can click that, and
let me go back to the launch screen,
has what's called the Fast Pass.
That is basically X-Core that
Microsoft has, is also used.
So you can run that.
They have this assessment that's more
of a guided accessibility process.
You could do that, maybe kind of towards
the end of the development cycle of
a feature that could be a more
thorough way to have it
guide you through some accessibility
testing, without having to pay for
a tool that you don't know whether
you're going to really like that or not.
You could try this guided assessment.
The ad hoc tools are really great.
I could look at things like headings.
This will show me the heading level.
I have two H1s on this page, I guess.
So those that's something
I should probably fix.
I'm a little surprised that that didn't
come up in any of the other tooling.
So that would be something for me to look
into is like, why do I have multiple H1s?
Landmarks, I can pull up landmarks and
it will show me all of these
sectioned regions that I have.
A complimentary sidebar, the main,
the navigation landmark up in the header,
there's a table of contents navigation
landmark that I have labeled,
so that's these two purple landmarks for
navigation.
I made one of them more unique by giving
it an ARIA label of table of contents.
And so that gets picked up here
by Accessibility Insights.
It's pretty handy.
This one's kind of interesting.
The tab stops.
So I turn that one on and
then if I start tabbing,
it will show me a line between
where my focus goes and
interesting that it is.
Yeah, you can kind of see like what
a nightmare this sidebar is when
you tab through using the dev stops tool.
It's not drawing the repeated lines for
some reason,
like we're just seeing the current one.
Usually when I use this tool,
you'll have lines all over the place.
It will mark a line for every single
Tabstop, which if you're really trying to
work with your design team to change the
way your tab order works for some reason.
You could use this tab stops tool,
like if it's jumping back and
forth a lot because for some reason, this
can be an effective screenshot tool to,
share with your team and
say, hey, this is madness.
We're jumping back and
forth across the screen at desktop sizes.
Can we reorder the markup on mobile
somehow so that this is more reasonable?
So it can be a tool to just like
understand the tab order overall on
a page.
So I'm going to turn that one off.
Color I could turn on,
make things more gray scale.
There's all kinds of cool stuff in here,
so
accessibility Insights is a really
great tool to have, okay.
So we've like kind of dipped our toes
in the water a little bit with some
accessibility tools.
We're gonna look a whole lot more
when we get to our next exercise.
Any questions right now
before we keep going?
>> Someone said,
I can suggest headings map,
Chrome extension for heading structure.
>> Cool, let's check it out.
Headings map extension.
Cool, yeah, I'll check this out,
cuz the one I use is a little bit dated.
That looks nice.
Cool, I'll leave that open and
add it to our tooling list, thank you.